On February 14, 2019, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi attended the reception marking the 60th anniversary of the signing of China-DPRK (Democratic People's Republic of Korea) Cultural Cooperation Agreement and China-DPRK Air Transport Agreement. Principals of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Civil Aviation Administration, the International Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, DPRK Ambassador to China Ji Jae Ryong and others attended the reception.

Wang Yi expressed in his speech that China and the DPRK are connected by mountains and rivers, and the two peoples enjoy a long-lasting friendship. 60 years ago, both sides signed the China-DPRK Cultural Cooperation Agreement and China-DPRK Air Transport Agreement under the care of the elder generations of leaders of the two countries, providing institutional framework and legal guarantee for bilateral communication and cooperation. Over the past 60 years, both sides have upheld the purpose of friendship, followed the spirit of agreements, and actively promoted bilateral people-to-people and cultural exchanges and cooperation in air transport.

Wang Yi pointed out that 2019 also marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of China-DPRK diplomatic relations and is a year with great historic significance. The China-DPRK friendship personally fostered by the elder generations of leaders of the two countries over 70 years of overcoming hardship and conquering obstacles has withstood the test of international vicissitudes; and the friendly traditions forged by the two peoples with their blood have withstood the passing of time, which are the common precious wealth of both sides and become firmer as well as brim with new vitality as time goes by.

Wang Yi noted that attaching great importance to China-DPRK relations, General Secretary Xi Jinping and Chairman Kim Jong Un have held four important meetings in less than a year, during which they carried out in-depth communication and reached a series of important consensus on relations between the two Parties and the two countries, the Korean Peninsula situation and other major issues, opening a new chapter of relations between the two countries. Under the personal care and joint guidance of the top leaders of the two countries, China-DPRK relations are taking on a new look, demonstrating new vitality and embracing new prospects. At present, both China and the DPRK have embarked on a new historic journey. We will actively support the DPRK in following a development path that is suitable to its national conditions, advance exchanges and cooperation in various fields with the DPRK side, actively carry out communication and coordination, and make unremitting efforts to promote the process of the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, establish a peace mechanism on the Peninsula and achieve long-term peace and stability on the Peninsula.

Ji Jae Ryong spoke highly of the important role played by the China-DPRK Cultural Cooperation Agreement and China-DPRK Air Transport Agreement in promoting DPRK-China friendship and cooperation over the past 60 years since the signing of the agreements. He expressed that DPRK-China friendship embodies the painstaking effort of the elder generations of leaders of the two countries and is rooted in the hearts of the two peoples. Under the personal guidance and promotion of Chairman Kim Jong Un and President Xi Jinping, bilateral friendship is being increasingly consolidated and developed. As the new year begins, another meeting between the top leaders of the two Parties and the two countries is of great strategic significance for deepening bilateral cooperation and maintaining peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula. The DPRK side sincerely wishes the Chinese side constant new victories in the cause of realizing the Chinese Dream of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on the occasion celebrating the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, and also stands ready to take the 70th anniversary of the establishment of DPRK-China diplomatic relations as an opportunity to further deepen bilateral cooperation in various fields.
